Data:
Facts or pieces of information that can be measured.

Statistics:
Statistics is a science of collecting, organizing and analysing the data.
We are doing this for better decision making.

Types:
Descriptive -- it consist of organazing and summarizing data.
Inferancial -- this is technique we use the data to form the conclusion.

Sampling Techniques:
Simple random
Stratified
Systematic
Convenience/voluntary responsible

Variable:
Variable is a property that can be take on any value.

Types:
Quantitative -- measured numerically
Qualitavive / categorical -- measure based on some characteristics

Quantitative:
Discrete -- whole number
Continuous -- (decimal kind)

Variable measurement scales:
Nominal -- categorical data
ordinal -- order of data matters, not value
Interval -- order of data matters, value also matters
Ratio --

Frequency distribution -- like count of each
Cumulative frequency -- like overall count at the end

Histogram:
BIN is always "10"
PDF(Probablity Density Function):
Smoothening of histograms(kernal density estimator)


Arithmetic mean for population(N) and sample(n):

Central Tendency: refers to the measure used to determine the center of the distribution of the date.
mean -- average
median -- works will with outliers
mode -- most frequent element

Measure of dispersion(speed):
Variance -- population V and sample V
Standard Deviation

Percentiles and Quartiles(first step to find outliers):
Per- a percentile is a value below which a certain percentage of obervation lie.

Five number summary:
minimum
first quartile
median
third quartile
maxiumum

Removing outliers:

(lower fence--higher fence)
LF-Q1-1.5(IQR)
HF-Q3+1.5(IQR)
IQR-InterQuartile Range -- Q3-Q1

Basel correction/degree of freedom:

Distribution:
Gaussian/normal -- there is a match between right and left side
{Emperical formula-- 68-95-99.7%}

Z-Score:
Find out std.devi away from the mean.
Helps to find area of the body curve.
Jail and body
Apply z-score on data set gives some value, this is called as standard normal distribution --- (Standardization,Normalization)

No...ion--minmax scaler


Probability:
Is a measure of a likelyhood of an event.

Additinal rule:(probability or)

Mutual exclusive event -- two events are mutually exclusive if the cannot occur at a same time.
p(a or b)=p(a)+a(b)
Non mutual exclusive event -- myltiple events occurs at a same time.
p(a or b)=p(a)+a(b)-p(a&b)

Multiplication rule: used in NAIVE BAYE'S(conditional probabality)
Independent events --each and every events are independent
p(a and b)=p(a)*a(b)
Dependent events --
p(a and b)=p(a)*a(b/a)

Permutation:
Combination:

P-value:
Hypothesis testing:
null hypo,alternate hypo,experiment,reject or accept null hypo
using significant value(alpha)
confidence interval, ci and alpha--opposite

Type-1,type-2 error:
One tailed and two tailed test:

CI:
Point estimate:
The value of any statistics thtat estimates the value of parameter.

t-test:
If population std.dev is not given we can use t-test.

p-test:

Chi square test:
claims about population proportions.
non parametric test that is performed on categarical (nominal or ordinal data).

Covariance:

Pearson correlation co-efficient: for linear
The more towards +1 more postively correlation, The more towards -1 more negatively correlation
Spearman's correlation: for non linear

Log nominal distribution:
Bernoulis distribution:(single try distribution)  -- pmf
2 outcomes-- 0 or 1 find p and q p,q=1-p

Binomial distribution:(n,p)
Every -- bernouli dist. (multiple)

Pareto distribution:(power law dist)

Poisson distribution:

Central limit theorem:

Transformation: